---
path: "/make-time-for-100doc/"
date: "2018-02-25"
title: "How to make time for 100 days of code"
tags: ['information', 'guide', 'learning', 'habits']
excerpt: ""
published: false
---

> Life moves pretty fast. If you donâ€™t stop and look around once in a
> while, you could miss it.â€Šâ€”â€ŠFerris Bueller.

I'm going to go over steps I have taken the help me with learning to
code ([again])

But fist, **preamble:**

## Letâ€™s pick up a new skill, get a new job, all in a few months.

That was the overriding message I got when I started out in
freeCodeCamp it's a fun and exciting time and you will see a lot of
articles along the lines of 'hey look at me I was a school teacher
before now I'm earning $100k as a engineer for x startup'

I don't mean this in a mean spirited or passive aggressive way, but if
you're starting out in web development and you surround yourself with
other people that want to achieve, they will, you know, achieve! ðŸ™ƒ

There's a bit of expectation vs reality here, if you are the kind of
person that can memorize the masses of information out there relating
to your chosen field then you're onto a winner, as for myself it's
repetition, repetition, repetition until it becomes habit, there's a
lot to be said about habits.

Forming habits takes time though, on [20161230] was when I decided to
take part in the <span>#100DaysOfCode</span> challenge I couldn't give
you an idea of how I felt then but reviewing the log entries I seemed
pretty confused and a little frustrated with it all.

That's not to say it hasn't been and enriching and life changing
experience for me.

Along the way I have met some truly awesome people happy to help with
any issues or problems you may have. The support I found not just in
the <span>#100DaysOfCode</span> community but the web dev community as
a whole is truly amazing.

Patience is needed, instant gratification doesnâ€™t work here, well at
least not for me. This will soon come to light if you start to compare
yourself to how other people (your cohorts) are progressing. You may
start to wonder why you are not progressing as fast as they are, do
not concern yourself with this and instead use that energy to focus on
what you need to do.

Different people progress at different rates and learn in different
ways.

When I finished my last (VBA) contract I used that time to fully
immerse myself in web development. At the time (which was good timing
actually) I started a build to learn project with two other remote
developers one in Egypt and one in Serbia. We were all participating
in the [Chingu] Voyage

I got to treat this time as a full time job which my WakaTime stats
will attest. This was one of the triggers for me that I should start
applying for jobs as a junior dev.

### Busy work

I get distracted, things like apps for slack and email and Twitter
should not be opened, this will eat up your time. You have a set
amount of time to get something done, this will come to light when you
have finished reading your Twitter updates and Slack messages only to
realise you have fifteen minutes left to complete the task you set out
to do.

Soon into starting <span>#100DaysOfCode</span> I noticed this, what I
did was turn off all my phone notifications - if you need to check
something then check it, don't let your phone dictate where you
attention needs to be directed. I turned off all browser notifications
for Slack and Gmail. My phone is left in another room on do not
disturb whilst I work. Whilst in do not disturb mode my phone will not
make a noise unless someone on my stared contacts list calls me. I
pick up the phone in the afternoon to check missed calls listen to
voice mails and return any calls if needed.

Get up early, I've taken to getting up an hour earlier than I used to
to squeeze an hour and a half out of the morning, I have a MI band
that I have set to vibrate to wake me at that time so I do not disturb
my wife

Go to bed early, sleep is important kids, anyone that says otherwise
obviously doesn't get enough sleep ðŸ™ƒ

Make time, people saying that they can't find time to do x in reality
are making excuses, you're the only one that can make these things
happen.

Love your family

Have a job? Thatâ€™s not an excuse, had a crappy day, just want to sit
on the sofa and veg out, that is time you can be spending learning and
also time you can be enjoying some downtime with your significant
other which is equally as important to your well-being

Itâ€™s a balance

<!-- links -->

[again]: https://scottspence.me/about
[20161230]: https://github.com/spences10/100-days-of-code/commit/7dbefb608862401d4cb9e6ed11f539b44bedcdae
[chingu]: https://medium.com/chingu
